Progress - CCC
Note Date:11/17/16
Signed by (RHEUMATOLOGIST), MD on 11/21/16 at 11:00 am Affiliation: MEDICAL
CENTER
Vital Signs sheet entries for 11/17/16: BP: 123/74. Heart Rate:
83. Weight: 173 (With Clothes). BMI: 26.9. Pain Score: 0.
--------------- --------------- --------------- --------------Active Medication list as of 11/17/16:
Medications - Prescription
FLUOCINOLONE - fluocinolone 0.01 % topical cream. Apply to
affected area twice a day Use for up to 2 weeks as needed for
flares.
HYDROXYCHLOROQUINE - hydroxychloroquine 200 mg tablet. One
tablet(s) by mouth daily
INSULIN LISPRO [HUMALOG] - Humalog 100 unit/mL subcutaneous
cartridge. Insulin pump - (Prescribed by Other Provider)
LEVOTHYROXINE - levothyroxine 75 mcg tablet. 1 tablet(s) by mouth
qam
LOSARTAN - losartan 50 mg tablet. 1 tablet(s) by mouth once a day
am
ROSUVASTATIN [CRESTOR] - Crestor 40 mg tablet. 1 tablet(s) by
mouth q pm - (Prescribed by Other Provider)
Medications - OTC
ASPIRIN [ENTERIC COATED ASPIRIN] - Enteric Coated Aspirin 81 mg
tablet, delayed release. 1 Tablet(s) by mouth once a day - (OTC)
CETIRIZINE - cetirizine 10 mg tablet. One tablet(s) by mouth a
day as needed - (Prescribed by Other Provider; Dose adjustment no new Rx)
CHOLECALCIFEROL (VITAMIN D3) - cholecalciferol (vitamin D3) 2,000
unit capsule. 1 capsule(s) by mouth once a day - (OTC)
LACTOBACILLUS COMBINATION NO.4 [PROBIOTIC] - Dosage uncertain (OTC)
MULTIVITAMIN - multivitamin tablet. 1 Tablet(s) by mouth once a
day - (OTC)
--------------- --------------- --------------- --------------HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: I saw Ms. XXXXX in the Rheumatology
Clinic in a follow-up appointment. Ms. XXXXX is a 57-year-old
patient with the following problems:
1. Hypocomplementemic urticarial vasculitis. Presented with
hives since early 2012, a skin biopsy was consistent with
vasculitis. Her laboratory reported negative serology for HBV,
HCV, ANCA, dsDNA, Ro, La, Sm, RNP, normal C1 inhibitor, C4 3, and

C2 <1.3, CU index 13.5 (<10.0). Initiated colchicine on 08/2012
increased up to 1.2 mg, and discontinued on 09/2012 due to
failure and diarrhea. Initiated prednisone 15 mg on 08/22/12,
and Plaquenil on 09/17/2012 after her ophthalmologist found no
contraindication. By 10/2012, had improved and prednisone was
tapered. By 12/2012 hand only few transient lesions, on 2.5 mg of
prednisone and Plaquenil. By 02/2013 had discontinued the
prednisone. On 04/2013 had no lesions, Plaquenil was reduced to
200 mg improvement was maintained. The patient was last seen on
September 2015 with only scattered few transient short-lived
lesions and normal C4. My impression was that the patient was in
remission on 200 mg of Plaquenil, no evidence of internal organ
involvement. Treatment was not modified.
2. Neuropathy. The patient reported paresthesia on right foot,
hypoesthesia, and sensation of numbness, unilateral. Considering
that diabetic mellitus will cause mostly a bilateral
polyneuropathy, an EMG was requested to investigate the
possibility of a mononeuritis multiplex.
3. Plaquenil monitoring. The patient had scheduled an
ophthalmologic exam in December.
3. Reactive airway disease & OSA. On 07/2014, reported episodes
of shortness of breath and fatigue. There were no abnormalities
on exam, chest x-ray showed no cardiopulmonary disease.
Pulmonary function tests and a CT scan of the chest were normal.
This ruled out the possibility that her shortness of breath could
be related to lung involvement from the HUV. Evaluated in
Pulmonary on 09/2014, diagnosed reactive airway disease and
prescribed inhaled steroids. A sleep study 10/22/14, that showed
severe obstructive sleep apnea. Initiated CPAP in 01/2015.
4. Left middle DIP mucous cyst. If in the future represents a
painful problem, it can be injected or surgically remove it.
5. Plantar fasciitis. The patient was advised to do exercises.
6. Status post right carpal tunnel syndrome.
7. Diabetes mellitus.
8. ID prophylaxis. Pneumovax 2001 at Joslin; negative HBV/HCV
on 08/2012.
Since the last visit, the patient has had on November 24 an
electromyography that showed abnormalities, a dedicated
electromyography for upper extremities was recommended and was
done on January 29.

Since the last visit, the patient developed a right fourth finger
flexor tendonitis, for which she had a surgical release on
May 11, 2016.
Ms. XXXXX presented today to the clinic stating that she is
recovering uneventfully for the operation of the tendon. She
reports that she has had only occasional urticarial lesions that
may last for hours or at the most one day. She continues taking
Plaquenil and reports no side effects.
The patient reports that she continues having a sensation of
numbness on the lateral aspect of the right foot that is very
persistent and on occasions the sensation ascends to the leg.
These symptoms started around May 2015 after a 5-mile walk.
The patient reports that she has intermittent variable intensity
numbness on the hands, sometimes is more predominant in the ulnar
aspect, sometimes involves the entire hand, but is not severe.
She has occasional sensation of numbness on the right triceps
area. The patient reports that she used to have more symptoms
related to neuropathy in arms, but since she had the C-spine
surgery they improved substantially. The patient denies having
weakness in either upper or lower extremities.
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: Otherwise negative.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1. Insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus.
2. Hashimoto's thyroiditis.
3. Herpes zoster.
4. Hyperlipidemia.
5. Hypertension.
6. Low back pain.
7. Chronic urticaria.
8. Whiplash.
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:
1. Right shoulder rotator cuff tendinopathy. Labral tear. Right
shoulder arthroscopic subacromial decompression. Debridement of
labral tear 03/2204.
2. Left shoulder impingement with partial rotator cuff tear.
Left shoulder arthroscopic sub acromial decompression. Debridement
of partial rotator cuff tear 05/2001.
3. Anterior cervical diskectomy C5-C6, C6-C7. 05/2009
Anterior cervical interbody reconstruction with biomechanical
device C5-C6 and C6-C7.

Anterior cervical arthrodesis C5-C6, C6-C7.
Anterior cervical plate instrumentation C5, C6, C7.
Application of local autograft for fusion augmentation.
Globus Providence anterior cervical plate with screw
fixation, 28 mm plate, 12-mm screws.
DePuy Spine VG-2 interbody biomechanical device: lordotic,
5/7 mm x2.
4. Right carpal tunnel release 07/2010.
5. Tenosynovectomy, left posterior tibial tendon; arthrotomy
05/1993
6. synovectomy, left ankle 05/1993. Right ring finger A1 pulley
release and synovectomy.
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient does not smoke, has two drinks a
week. No recreational drug use. Has not received transfusions.
A program manager at a local hospital. Single with no children.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:
GENERAL: The patient was alert, oriented, in no acute distress.
HEENT: No alopecia. Pupils equal, round and reactive,
extraocular muscles intact. Conjunctivae pink. Mouth moist, no
oropharyngeal lesions.
NECK: Supple, no adenopathy, no thyromegaly, no bruits.
LUNGS: Clear to auscultation.
HEART: Regular rate and rhythm, normal S1 and S2, no murmurs.
ABDOMEN: Soft, non-tender, no hepatosplenomegaly.
EXTREMITIES: No cyanosis, no edema, distal pulses 2+.
NEUROLOGIC: Intact cranial nerves II through XII. Motor power
5/5 proximal and distal. Sensory intact to touch and vibration
in upper extremities, a sensation of hypoesthesia in the lateral
aspect of the right foot, reduction of vibration perception on
the right foot.
MUSCULOSKELETAL: No swollen or tender joints.
SKIN: No inflammatory lesions.
LABORATORY DATA: Joslin, December 1, 2015, BUN 10, creatinine
0.5, ALT 19, AST 20, albumin 4.4, alkaline phosphatase 69.
EMG, November 24, 2015. Impression: Abnormal study. There is
electrophysiologic evidence for a chronic generalized
predominantly sensory axonal polyneuropathy. The absence of a
left tibial motor response and right radial sensory response may
be suggestive of the diagnosis of underlying mononeuropathy
multiplex.
EMG, February 29, 2016. Impression: Abnormal study. There is

evidence for a mild left median neuropathy at the left wrist as
in carpal tunnel syndrome. The data is also suggestive of mild
cervical radiculopathies affecting C7-8 myotomes bilaterally.
Compared to the previous study performed on November 24, 2015,
the electrophysiologic data continue to demonstrate a generalized
polyneuropathy affecting sensory greater than motor fibers. The
abnormalities seen in this study, however, are more demyelinating
as opposed to axonal in nature. The previous absent right radial
response was able to be elicited. There were no clear
asymmetries, focal finding to suggest mononeuritis multiplex.
ASSESSMENT AND PLAN: A 57-year-old patient with the following
problems:
1. Hypocomplementemic urticarial vasculitis. The patient has
been in treatment with Plaquenil 200 mg; that has resulted in
excellent control of the urticarial vasculitis, as the patient
has had only a few scattered and transient lesions. Her C4 has
recovered to more normal levels and the patient has not presented
with nephropathy or other internal organ involvement. I have
advised to continue with 200 mg of Plaquenil.
2. Neuropathy. The patient has diabetes mellitus and I
suspected that will have polyneuropathy. She has cervical
spondylosis status post-surgery, her electromyography showed
evidence of cervical radiculopathy. There is also evidence of
left carpal tunnel syndrome. The electromyography in upper
extremities is not consistent with mono neuritis multiplex; there
is absence of the left tibial motor response with an axonal
neuropathy. The electromyography in upper extremities is more
consistent with demyelinating polyneuropathy, it would be
expected that the diabetic neuropathy could be more axonal.
Considering these two findings, the question is whether at least
the left tibial motor response could be related to vasculitis,
and whether the patient has a demyelinating neuropathy
independent to the neuropathy secondary to DM, cervical
radiculopathy and carpal tunnel. I have advised the patient to
have an evaluation in Neurology to further advice on the nature
of these abnormalities. If it is concluded that they could be of
an immune nature or indeed vasculitic, her treatment will be
modified. The patient was in agreement.
3. Plaquenil monitoring, last ophthalmologic exam August 2016.
I am planning to see Ms. XXXXX in six months or before if
treatment for neuropathy is necessary.

(RHEUMATOLOGIST), MD
eScription document:1-14393049
Cc: PRIMARY CARE DOCTOR, MD

